# Bash script repo, This repo contains sample bash scripts for simple tasks in the shell.

## Log_parser_v1 Directory
### Contents:
   * IP_Logs.txt: Sample log file generated by a system that is tracking connections(IP addresses). 
   * accepted_IPs.txt: Sample file containing all known/accepted IP addresses for a system.
   * log_parser_v1.sh: Sample parsing script created with bash. It parses the IP_Logs.txt file line by line and processes each IP address in each line by matching each IP 
     address to IP addresses in the accepted_IPs.txt file. If no match is made it will flag that line/connection.

## Log_parser_v2 Directory 
### Contents:
   * IP_Logs.txt: Sample log file generated by a system that is tracking connections(IP addresses). 
   * accepted_IPs.txt: Sample file containing all known/accepted IP addresses for a system.
   * log_parser_v1.sh: Sample parsing script created with bash. It parses the IP_Logs.txt file line by line and processes each IP address in each line by matching each IP 
     address to IP addresses in the accepted_IPs.txt file. If no match is made it will flag that line/connection. This script leverages modern commands, allowing it to be much simpler. 
 
## test_logs Directory
### Contents:
   * Parse_log_files.sh: Sample parsing script created in bash. It loops through all files in a directory, parses each file one at a time, it searches each line for a 
     particular word/phrase and counts how many times it appears.
   * testlog1.txt: Sample log file.
   * testlog2.txt: Sample log file.

## command_line_arguments_tutorial.sh
   * Simple tutorial to show how to use command line arguments in the shell. Allowing the user to pass arguments at execution.

## BUILT WITH
  * Bash/shell

## PREREQUISITES
  * For Mac: All binaries and files are already installed.
  * For Windows: visit:https://medium.com/the-owl/how-to-run-shell-scripts-in-windows-87371211028e

## USAGE
### For Mac: Navigate to Terminal and follow these steps(same steps apply to windows)
   * List file attributes. 
     ```
     $ ls -la command_line_arguments_tutorial.sh
     $ -rw-r-xr-x@ 1 anthonyquist  staff  161 Dec  3 19:02 command_line_arguments_tutorial.sh
     ```
   * Make file executable for the current user.
     ```
     $ chmod u+x command_line_arguments_tutorial.sh
     $ -rwxr-xr-x@ 1 anthonyquist  staff  161 Dec  3 19:02 command_line_arguments_tutorial.sh
     ```  
   * Run the script as follows.
     ```
     $ ./command_line_arguments_tutorial.sh
     ```
     OR
     ```
     $ bash command_line_arguments_tutorial.sh
     ```
